# **General outline of the NixOS configuration**

This file outlines the general structure of the /etc/nixos/ configuration files. It is a guide to understanding the NixOS setup.

The general structure for nixos/ is as follows:

.  
├── flake.nix  
├── flake.lock  
├── README.md  
├── hosts/  
│   ├── base.nix  
│   ├── common.nix  
│   ├── deskmeat/  
│   │   ├── configuration.nix  
│   │   └── hardware-configuration.nix  
│   └── oldlenno/  
│       ├── configuration.nix  
│       └── hardware-configuration.nix  
├── overlays/  
│   └── default.nix  
└── users/  
    └── allu/  
        ├── home.nix  
        └── plasma.nix

The home-manager configurations are integrated directly into the host configurations via NixOS modules. User-specific settings reside in the users/ directory.

**TODO:** replace base.nix and common.nix with a more modular system imported in flake.nix.

## **Component Explanation**

* **flake.nix**: The entry point for the NixOS configurations. Its primary role is to define the nixpkgs input, incorporate home-manager, and build the nixosConfigurations output for each host.  
* **/hosts**: This directory isolates all machine-specific configurations.  
  * common.nix: A file for configuration options that are identical across all machines.  
  * base.nix: Similar to common.nix, but for settings that are very minimally basic, such as some editor preferences, localisation and basic tools.  
  * hosts/\<machine-name\>/configuration.nix: The primary, monolithic configuration file for a specific machine. It imports hardware profiles, common settings, and defines user environments, including specialized Python and R setups. It also imports the home-manager user modules.  
  * hosts/\<machine-name\>/hardware-configuration.nix: The machine-specific hardware profile generated by NixOS.  
* **/overlays**: This directory is for Nixpkgs overlays, which are used to add custom packages or modify existing ones.  
* **/users**: Contains the home-manager configuration files for individual users.

## **Setting Up a New Machine**

0. Install NixOS.  
1. Copy the configuration files.

```
sudo mv /etc/nixos/ /etc/nixos\_bp/   
sudo cp \-R ./nixos/ /etc/ 
```

2. Installation

Check and compare the initial configuration and the new one. If this is a new host, create a new configuration in ./hosts/, otherwise start the installation:

```
cd /etc/nixos/  
sudo nix flake update  
sudo nixos-rebuild switch \--flake /etc/nixos/.\#deskmeat 
```

## **Setting Up User Preferences**

Some steps need to be performed with a new blank plasma user:

* Go to Plasma settings and download the "Commonality" global theme, "Bibata-Modern-Ice.gz" cursor theme, "Memphis98" icon theme and set the application style to MS Windows 9x. In Application Style, also configure the GTK style to "Irixium".  
* Set up mail accounts in Thunderbird.
